[Music]
all right grab some popcorn for this 113
mysterious details on everyday objects
explained you know we're so used to
seeing certain everyday objects that we
become completely oblivious to the
details yet some of the most ingenious
ideas are often hidden right in plain
sight you'll definitely be surprised by
these 13 nuances on the most commonplace
objects out there you ready at Ram's
mysterious zig zags now if you look
closely at a trams overhead lines you'll
see that its contact wires zigzag back
and forth instead of going in a straight
line to start with all trams have an arm
like structure called a pantograph
attached to the roofs the upper part of
the pantograph is gradually worn down by
the overhead wire and eventually it
needs to be replaced to wear it down
evenly the wire isn't installed strictly
along the tram straight path but in a
zigzag instead as the tram moves the
pantograph slides along the wire and it
wears down evenly how practical is that
who killed the king mmm not me no sir
uh-uh in a standard 52 deck of cards the
King of Hearts looks kind of strange
sure he's the only king without a
mustache but what's even weirder is that
he's the only king who appears to be
sticking his sword straight into his
head oh there are actually several
theories on this the first theory
suggests that originally the King of
Hearts wielded an axe in his left hand
but due to centuries of card makers
copying the image badly the Kings axe
disappeared and started to look more
like a sword
another theory claims that the King of
Hearts represents the emotionally
unbalanced French King Charles the
seventh according to popular theory the
King went crazy and put a sword through
his head from fear of being poisoned
either way we'll get you some historians
also argue that the king of hearts
represents Ajax the great while the
Queen of Hearts is Helen of Troy the
most beautiful woman in the world Ajax
was one of Helens admirers but when she
refused him he chose to commit suicide
by stabbing himself with his own sword
ah come on get over it the Royal coat of
arms of the United Kingdom if you've
ever seen British coins you might have
thought nothing of them
well the one two five 10 20 and 50 pence
pieces actually depicts sections of the
Royal coat of arms when laid out
together
they formed the whole shield and the one
pound coin depicts the entire shield on
its backside pretty cool huh
it's like a monetary mosaic Hey think
about a tattoo like that for your
backside you'd be sitting on a fortune
well maybe not a fortune the open jar
symbol on Cosmetics packaging ladies
have you ever searched high and low for
an expiration date on your makeup all to
no avail in the future
just look for this little open jar icon
it's called the PA o period after
opening and it tells you how long you
can safely use the product after opening
it the jar is usually accompanied by a
number with the letter M which stands
for months and it can be seen on almost
all cosmetics products just make sure
you remember exactly when you open the
package so you'll know when 3 6 9 or
however many months indicated have
passed really makeup goes bad after 3
months or maybe they just want you to
buy some more you think
the Statue of Liberty's crown I'm sure
you're familiar with Lady Liberty
whether you've seen her in person or in
a picture but have you ever noticed how
many spikes are in her crown and do you
know what they represent well there are
seven of them and they represent the
seven seas and seven continents of the
world showing that freedom and liberty
are universal concepts that should be
shared across the world and that crown
of hers is a pretty heavy weight to bear
each spike weighs 150 pounds the crown
also has 25 windows showing a great view
I know I've been up there myself
now here's another cool fact she was
originally the color of pennies because
she's made entirely of the same material
copper over time the copper oxidized and
she turned that bluish green patina
color that we know her today can you
imagine a reddish-brown colored Statue
of Liberty weird blank pages and books
now you've probably noticed that many
books have a few blank pages at the
beginning and/or end but you know why
book pages are often printed on large
sheets of paper rather than on small
individual ones and if there isn't
enough content to fill these sheets
there will be blank pages publishers
often print the word notes or leave some
other sign on them so readers don't
think it's a printing mistake colorful
toothpaste have you ever wondered why
classic toothpaste is striped red white
and blue it's because it's French right
now it turns out that each stripe has
different ingredients and purposes
fluoride the white part is the most
important ingredient in toothpaste
it helps whiten your teeth and remove
plaque the blue or green gel has
antimicrobial and breath freshening
effects the red part was added later
it contains crucial elements for healthy
gums in fact keeping the colors and
separate stripes isn't really necessary
it's just a clever
marketing strategy bidder Nintendo
switched cartridges so is your first
thought when playing video game consoles
to eat the cartridges well apparently
that's what the manufacturers of the
cartridges for the nindo switch thought
when they decided to coat them with a
bitter tasting non-toxic solution all
jokes aside it was actually a pretty
smart move in case kids tried to put the
tiny cartridges in their mouth and
possibly choke now who would do that
yeah my kids the bitter taste is meant
to make children spit out the cartridge
in disgust numbers on Heinz packets
[Music]
you've probably never noticed the little
numbers in the upper right corner of
Heinz packets since if you're like me
you rip them open as soon as you get
your fries you probably didn't even
notice that the same product can have
different numbers well the online
community demanded to know what they
mean because they have too much time on
their hands
so Heinz replied on their official
Twitter page yes they have one
apparently these numbers indicate the
launch codes for a first strike nuclear
attack no not really it's just which
filling line the packet was filled on
yeah that's all nothing too exciting the
hole in the cap of a ballpoint pen most
people assume that the tiny hole on the
tip of a pen cap is there to even out
the pressure so that the pen doesn't
leak good gas but the real reason is
much more serious if a person
accidentally swallows the cap and chokes
on it their airway won't be completely
obstructed there will still be a small
opening for air to get through have you
noticed a lot of things where people are
sticking the wrong things in their
mouths just saying only put food in
their pen caps are not desert little
bumps on the F and J on your keyboard
this is done for those experienced
typists that can do their work without
even looking at the keyboard the F and J
are the so-called home keys or your
index fingers arrests and the bumps are
there to help find this position
indentations on the bottle of wine and
champagne bottles lots of people think
that this is done so it's easier for the
wine steward to grip the bottle when
pouring drinks
well they might help out in this case
that's not why they exist it's because
the bottom and sides of a bottle are
weaker and can crack when the bottle is
being corked
the indentation in the bottom serves to
compensate for the pressure that
accumulates during the process and
that's exactly why champagne bottle
indentations are much deeper since they
have more pressure due to the
carbonation tiny holes in airplane
windows have you ever noticed the tiny
hole in an airplane window and wondered
why it was there actually these holes
have two purposes first they help
balance out the air pressure when a
plane ascends the pressure inside and
outside the cabin differs dramatically
thanks to these little holes the outer
windows don't have to bear all the
pressure secondly without these holes
the window would completely fog up and
block your view well that's actually
kind of cool isn't it so what fact
amazed you the most do you know any
other little nuances on everyday objects
share your thoughts in the comments
section send this video to your friends
and remember to press the like button
have you already subscribed to our
channel no then do it right away because
we've got so many more cool videos on
the bright side
you